[AIP-152] Jobs (#497)
googleapis/aip: aip/0152.md

---
aip:
  id: 152
  state: reviewing
  created: 2020-04-27
permalink: /152
redirect_from:
  - /0152
---

# Jobs

Occasionally, APIs may need to expose a task that takes significant time to
complete, and where a transient [long-running operation][aip-151] is not

> appropriate. For example, a task could need to run repeatedly, or have separate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
appropriate. For example, a task could need to run on a recurring schedule, or have separate
```

Author: I would prefer focus on the _repeated_ aspect than the _scheduling_ aspect. (In theory, we have Cloud Scheduler for tasks that are run on a schedule, although that applies less elsewhere.)

permissions for configuring the task as opposed to running it.

## Guidance

An API **may** define a `Job` resource to represent a particular task with
distinct setup, configuration, and execution:

```proto

> message WritingJob {

Reviewer: I'm worried that the -ing ending might hint that this is a naming convention for jobs -- which I don't believe it is. Do we have another example here?

Reviewer: Maybe DuplicateBookJob?

Author: How about `WriteBookJob`.

  // The resource name for the writing job.
  string name = 1 [(google.api.resource) = {
    type: "library.googleapis.com/WritingJob"
    pattern: "publishers/{publisher}/writingJobs/{writing_job}"
  }];

  // Additional configuration...
}
```

- The name of the resource **must** end with the word "Job".

> - The service **should** define all five of the standard methods, and use them

Reviewer: Can we cite the specific AIPs for these?

  as the primary way to configure the job.

### Run method

> The service **must** define a `Run` custom method that executes the job:

Reviewer 2: Imagine a job which is scheduled to run either repeatedly, or once but not right now:

- Is that a suitable candidate for "this sort of job" (as described by the AIP)?
- If so, would there actually be a Run method, or just a Create?

It's not immediately clear to me - based on "a task could need to run repeatedly" whether cron-like APIs are part of this AIP, or whether that's out of scope.

Reviewer: I think it does include cron-like jobs. And it seems like there *could* be scenarios where you may not want a "run this right now" method. I'd suggest this becomes **should**.

Author: Fine with **should** here.

```proto
rpc RunWritingJob(RunWritingJobRequest)
    returns (google.longrunning.Operation) {
  option (google.api.http) = {
    post: "/v1/{name=publishers/*/writingJobs/*}:run"
    body: "*"
  }
  option (google.longrunning.operation_info) = {
    response_type: "RunWritingJobResponse"
    metadata_type: "RunWritingJobMetadata"
  }
}
```

- The HTTP method **must** be `POST`.

> - The method **must** return a [long-running operation][aip-151], which

Reviewer: What if the job itself completes quickly, but we need the "recurring" aspect of this? Can it return immediately?

Author: I think it should not, but we can change this to should to reflect that.

  **must** resolve to a response message that includes the result of running
  the job.
  - The method **may** use any metadata message it wishes.
- Errors that prevent execution of the job from _starting_ **must** return an
  error response ([AIP-193][]), similar to any other method. Errors that occur
  over the course of the job execution **may** be placed in the metadata
  message. The errors themselves **must** still be represented with a
  [`google.rpc.Status`][] object.

### Results

Ordinarily, the API **should** provide results to the user as the final
response of the `Run` method. However, this is sometimes insufficient; for

> example, a job that runs on a cadence in the background can not deliver results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
example, a job that runs on a recurring schedule in the background can not deliver results
```

Author: Done.

to the user in this way.

> The service **may** store results as a sub-collection of resources under the

Reviewer: I think this needs a lot more explanation. What should we call the subcollection? results? runs? Can we see an example? We need to expand on this a lot.

job, which allows the user to list results of past job executions. A service
that does this **should** define the `Get`, `List`, and `Delete` methods for

> the result resources.

Reviewer 2: So what does the Run LRO return in this case?

distinct setup, configuration, and execution:

```proto

> message WriteBookJob {

Reviewer: Should have some naming convention guidelines here? Perhaps it should be that you should append Job to a valid RPC name? (So <Verb><Noun>Job?)

Author: Good idea. Done.

  message. The errors themselves **must** still be represented with a
  [`google.rpc.Status`][] object.

### Executions and results

Ordinarily, the API **should** provide results to the user as the final
response of the `Run` method. However, this is sometimes insufficient; for
example, a job that runs on a recurring schedule in the background can not
deliver results to the user in this way.

The service **may** store resources representing individual executions along
with their result as a sub-collection of resources under the job, which allows
the user to list past job executions. A service that does this **should**
define the `Get`, `List`, and `Delete` methods for the execution resources:

```proto

> message WriteBookJobExecution {

Reviewer: Are we sold on executions? What about "runs" (some other GCP services do this IIRC)? Or something else? I'm not necessarily against "executions" but want to make sure we choose the right name since we'll have to live with it for a long time.

Author: I really dislike "run" as a noun personally, but I could be talked into it.

Author: I looked at our corpus and we pretty consistently use "run" as a verb, and we basically never use it as a noun, but we do not have a term that we _do_ use instead. (For the most part, we do not actually have "execution resources" like what is described here.)

Reviewer: I can't think of anything besides run... So I guess we'll go with executions. :-)
